I am on a train with no brakes going
backwards I'm not just any train this in
Stephenson's rocket which was built in
when was it crisp 1829 1829 well it's
not the original that's on the Science
Museum this is a replica 150 years later
that is in the National Railway Museum
in York but for all intents and purposes
this is Stephenson's rocket and it has
no brakes Chris tell them why tell them
something they might not know okay when
this is built proper brakes really
hadn't been invented you had a handbrake
for when you were stood still and we
also on this loco have modern brakes
because that's the law but we try not to
use them we try to be authentic so the
way will break is literally where we're
going backwards of the motor so we'll
stick it in forwards gear that will will
put steam into the cylinders on the
opposite side and bring us gradually to
a nice slow halt then we'll just saunter
off in the opposite direction now it
seems like that would damage it it seems
like because I'm a regular gearbox when
you hit that and put it there we go into
reverse it feels like I should mesh the
gears wrongly that's not what's
happening here it's just injecting steam
the other way
that's exactly right they're cylinder
moves backwards and forwards like this
we just put the steam into the direction
that the cylinder wants to move it tries
to compress the steam and that
resistance slows the loco down and so we
come steadily to a stop like here and
then once we hit though it just starts
going the other way
hopefully that is wonderful that is how
he stopped Stephenson's rocket that is a
train with no brakes and that thank you
to Chris Charlie and the National
Railway Museum is something you might
not have known